=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Dancer::Plugin::Preprocess::Markdown - Generate HTML content from Markdown files

=head1 VERSION

version 0.001

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Dancer::Plugin::Preprocess::Markdown automatically generates HTML content from
Markdown files in a Dancer web application.

Add the plugin to your application:

    use Dancer::Plugin::Preprocess::Markdown;

Configure its settings in the YAML configuration file:

    plugins:
      "Preprocess::Markdown":
        save: 1
        paths:
          "/documents":
            recursive: 1
            save: 0
          "/articles":
            src_dir: "articles/markdown"
            dest_dir: "articles/html"

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Dancer::Plugin::Preprocess::Markdown generates HTML content from Markdown source
files.

When an HTML file is requested, and its path matches one of the paths specified
in the configuration, the plugin looks for a corresponding Markdown file and
processes it to produce the HTML content. The generated HTML file may then be
saved and re-used with subsequent requests for the same URL.

=head1 CONFIGURATION

The available configuration settings are described below.

=head2 Top-level settings

=head3 paths

A collection of paths that will be served by the plugin. Each path entry may
define path-specific settings that override top-level settings.

=head3 recursive

If set to C<0>, then the plugin only processes files placed in the source
directory and not its subdirectories. If set to C<1>, subdirectories are also
processed.

Default: C<0>

=head3 save

If set to C<0>, then the HTML content is generated on-the-fly with every
request. If set to C<1>, then HTML files are generated once and saved, and are
used in subsequent responses. The files are regenerated every time the source
Markdown files are modified.

Default: C<0>

=head2 Path-specific settings

=head3 src_dir

The directory where source Markdown files are located.

Default: C<md/src/I<{path}>>

=head3 dest_dir

The destination directory for the generated HTML files (if the C<save> option is
in use).

Default: C<md/dest/I<{path}>>

=head1

If there's a route defined in your application that matches one of the paths
served by the plugin, it will take precedence. For example, with the following
configuration:

    plugins:
      "Preprocess::Markdown":
        paths:
          "/documents":
            ...

and this route in the application:

    get '/documents/faq' => sub {
        ...
    };

A request for C</documents/faq> won't be processed by the plugin, but by the
handler defined in the application.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item *

L<Text::Markdown>

=item *

L<Markdown Homepage|http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/>

=back

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Markdown to HTML conversion is done with L<Text::Markdown>, written by Tomas
Doran.

=for :stopwords cpan testmatrix url annocpan anno bugtracker rt cpants kwalitee diff irc mailto metadata placeholders metacpan

=head1 SUPPORT

=head2 Bugs / Feature Requests

Please report any bugs or feature requests through the issue tracker
at L<https://github.com/odyniec/p5-Dancer-Plugin-Preprocess-Markdown/issues>.
You will be notified automatically of any progress on your issue.

=head2 Source Code

This is open source software.  The code repository is available for
public review and contribution under the terms of the license.

L<https://github.com/odyniec/p5-Dancer-Plugin-Preprocess-Markdown>

  git clone https://github.com/odyniec/p5-Dancer-Plugin-Preprocess-Markdown.git

=head1 AUTHOR

Michal Wojciechowski <odyniec@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2013 by Michal Wojciechowski.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

